---
layout: post 
title: Onboarding
author: Yannis Paetzelt
---

I've been working with Unity on and off since 2014, and I've been a solo developer for the majority of that time.
Working on a game in a team is something new to me, and it has been a challenge to adapt. It's nice being able to decide
how a game should be made in every respect, from the minute detail, to the systems level and not worry about diverging
opinions. Luckily I have some experience in software engineering from a previous university course, where I did work in
a fairly diverse team on relatively complex software. The hard part in adapting software engineering principles to game
development is the design aspect, something I have no formal training in except for the many hours of Brackeys I watched
on YouTube.

#### Unity - _a beautiful mess_

I've tried to keep up with Unity's development over the years. It's been great seeing new features added to the engine,
although sometimes you have to wonder what direction Unity will go in next (DOTS? Not sure what they're planning here).
That also means Unity's feature-set can be quite unstable at times, including leaving some things unfinished or lacking.
The new Input System, which I've started working with, is a great example, the topic of which I'll address in more
detail in my next post. In any case, I've sort-of become the go-to Unity expert in the team, even if would describe
myself as nothing of the sort. I'll be reviewing any code, and supporting our other programmer Marcus with his tasks.

### VCS Shenanigans

While most of the development so far has been going well, we've had the most issues with version control and working
with large assets (Where do we put these things??) without paying exorbitant amounts of money for cloud storage with
versioning support. Git has been a pain to use with Unity, but the alternatives aren't much better. Perforce looks
promising at first glance, but it requires you to host your own VCS server, which none of us in the team can really
commit to.
