---
layout: post 
title: Input System Blues
author: Yannis Paetzelt
---

### Incompatability
Getting the camera setup correct is one of the first steps to getting the player input where we want it, and Cinemachine
was integral to that.
I also wanted to use Unity's new Input System. Firstly, as a challenge to learn a new system, and secondly because it
offered features that would make our desired control scheme possible to implement. As it turns out, the Input System
suffers from the same problems that many of Unity's external packages suffer from. Documentation is only really starting
to be written for it, and some features clash with existing stable packages like Cinemachine, which we were also using.

I spent a _lot_ of time getting these systems to mesh properly.

The Cinemachine developers had thought of this use case thankfully, and provide a component that adapts the normal 
Cinemachine behaviour to the new Input System. I used this to add mouse and analogue stick controls to the individual 
players' cameras. That isn't always an option though, so there are some landmines to look out for when choosing
packages to use in production. That does incentivize a thorough design period before starting development, which is good
for many reasons besides avoiding incompatibilities.

### Controls

We decided on a hybrid control setup that allowed for split-screen multiplayer, and singleplayer. That requires that
the implementation is aware of what devices the player is using, and reacts accordingly. Supposedly, the Input System
would take care of handling devices automatically. The idea is that one defines control schemes that can be assigned 
to individual players based on what devices are available. Unfortunately, that feature wasn't working with our setup,
which means I had to develop a bespoke way of doing it. Hardcoding the controls felt icky, I prefer keeping things
generic most of the time, but for this scenario I thought it necessary given the time frame and limitations of the system.

In the end, in split-screen mode each player is controlled separately with controllers or mouse and keyboard. In singleplayer
either control scheme works for controlling the characters and switching between them. It was a great moment when the team
tested the controls and it met their expectations.
